[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Everybody asks the
question, who are you.
But I ask the
question, what are you?
I am Randy Veitenheimer.
And for years, I
have been studying
with some of the top masters
of the world that deal
with the idea of consciousness.
Today, I want to offer a
new view on consciousness
that I hope might
help you removes locks
and get you back to who you are.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So what is consciousness?
The greatest thing about
being human is consciousness.
In fact, it's the only thing
that defines our existence.
Consciousness is awareness
of one's self existence
and existence of self.
This is the duality.
Consciousness is self-awareness
and awareness of the self.
There have been many attempts
to examine consciousness.
But what is it?
How does it work?
The current model is breaking
down human consciousness
into subcategories.
Per Freud, he broke
consciousness down
into three layers--
the alert consciousness,
the subconsciousness,
and unconsciousness.
In my opinion, consciousness
is not layered or subdivided.
It is homogeneous.
When we deal with
human consciousness,
we also deal with a collective
consciousness of humanity.
And not as a separate,
but as an integrated part
of human consciousness
and knowledge.
We can examine human
collective consciousness.
What does it mean to be human?
What does it mean to share
a collective consciousness,
to share and be a part of
a collective consciousness
identity?
Group consciousness,
religion, family, politics,
tribal consciousness,
creative consciousness, these
are all aspects of what
it means to be human.
And if you are a human,
you are human as a species
and as an individual.
Rupert Sheldrake
introduces the concept
of morphic fields, which
is also the same concept
of consciousness,
subconsciousness, unconscious,
and individual consciousness.
Why is it important?
It gives us additional insight
into the origins of problems
and behavior and disease.
You have an energy field,
a human energy field.
The first layer is referred
to as the aetheric field.
And on most people, that is
probably two to three inches.
There's ways to become
sensitive to that.
We're sensitive to it already.
It comes in the form of somebody
that walks up behind you
or you feel like somebody
is looking at you.
It's called a proximity sense.
And that is when you
are directly engaged
with your aetheric field.
But nobody ever
seems to explain it.
So let's use acupuncture.
When you stick that needle
onto one of those energy
points on the body, you are
changing the energy flow
at that point.
Acupuncture needles stick
up into your aetheric field.
It represents a short circuit.
You're taking the entire
human energy field
and you're able to short
circuit it to some degree
and cause the energy
flow around you
to now be introduced into you.
Another stage of
acupuncture would
be to be able to take
one needle and be
able to hit one
point, and through it
to engage any other or all
other points on the body.
A third level of acupuncture,
the ability to use your touch.
When you touch somebody,
you're actually
touching them with your
entire electromagnetic field.
But the method of contact
and the method of transfer
is your aetheric field.
When you touch somebody
on one of these points,
you are able at a
certain level of practice
to be able to do the same thing
as what the needle is doing.
The next level of
advancement would
be to be able to touch one
point on the human body,
and be able to hit any other
point, or to hit all points,
and thereby energize
the whole system.
But those points
have correspondence--
they correspond to your organs
or to processes in the body.
And these have been
extensively studied.
All human health depends
on energy and energy flow.
So what is an energy field?
You are an energy field.
What is a morphic field?
It is an energy field.
What is collective
consciousness?
It's an energy field.
The difference is,
the human energy
field has a physicality to it.
What does the energetic
field look like?
The easiest way I've come
to define it and see it
is as a bubble, a
human energy bubble.
It extends out ideally to
a minimum of nine feet.
At the nine-foot mark,
you have a causal barrier.
You have the limit of
your own consciousness
and your own existence.
Now that does not include
your ability to be projective,
your ability to connect
to other energy fields.
But morphic fields are
strictly information.
Energy slowed down in
physics is information.
Extra-dimensional
information flows
are trans-dimensional
information flows.
We connect, we have connections.
We have connections
to energy fields,
we have connections
to information fields.
They are different, they
process at a different rate.
So morphic fields
is an ideal way
to explain a body of
information that is limited,
that we can put a
causal barrier on,
that we can put
brackets on, that we
can call a set of information.
So not only do you have a big
nine-foot bubble of yourself,
you're connected to all
these other bubbles.
Let's say you don't
have a nine-foot bubble.
You're more subject
to information flows
that are larger than you.
And some of the
information flows
we're subject to are massive.
It's incredible the
amount of information
that has been dumped into
them over thousands of years.
And when we touch upon
them, that's all we do.
We touch upon them
until we can decide
whether to move into them,
to accept that information,
or to explore it.
I like the idea that
we're a nine-foot bubble,
that we can expand out to
hundreds of feet or thousands
of feet or millions of miles.
But in the process,
that we can encompass
other bubbles of information.
And that we can integrate
them or synchronize with them
or become congruent
where there is values.
And that information
becomes something
that we can utilize
in our everyday life
and our experience
as human beings.
To me, one of the most important
things to understand and study
is the nature of these
trans-dimensional interactions,
these extra-dimensional
interactions that affect
us energetically at all times.
One of those is
participatory consciousness.
We don't think about that
when we identify ourselves
as a particular religious group
or a particular political group
or of a particular
tribe, that we
are in a state of
participatory consciousness.
When you say, I am anything
other than your name,
you are exhibiting participatory
consciousness participation.
You're identifying
with something
outside of who you
are and what you are.
Group consciousness
is the same thing.
We identify as a group, as a
nation, as an organization.
Same thing-- it does not exist
except as a morphic field,
as a level of information
that we are tapped into,
something that we
draw information from.
And eventually we get to
creative consciousness.
And creative consciousness
is where we are best
able to express
ourselves, identify
ourselves, and
progress ourselves
to a greater state of being.
The study of human
consciousness is
a very mental and
intellectual exercise.
But there are other ways
to acquire this knowledge.
One of those ways is
through another teacher
and a body of teachings that he
brought to the United States,
and that is Yogi Bhajan.
Yogi Bhajan came to
the United States
and declared that he would
teach Kundalini Yoga.
Kundalini Yoga gives
you an opportunity
to explore consciousness
from a physicality,
from your physical
existence to begin with.
But it also is
open-ended in its ability
to allow you to move upward in
your levels of consciousness.
I lived in Los Angeles when
I was in my 20's and found
that I had a big problem of
what they call monkey mind.
I couldn't go to sleep at night.
My mind would go in a
million miles an hour.
A commercial came on
the TV about doing yoga.
In 1971, yoga was not very
well known or very popular.
But it said that it would
give you the ability to relax.
I went to that first Hatha
Yoga class, and it was true--
I was able to sleep after
doing those exercises.
And that is one of
the things about being
alive is we need our sleep.
And if you don't get your sleep,
you tend to be not yourself.
Being not yourself
is a classic thing
that Kundalini Yoga addresses.
All of this information has
to come to a single place,
and that is inside you.
I think one of the
most difficult things
that a person
encounters in life is
trying to find some
internal understanding
or some internal balance about
everything from morphic fields
to level of
consciousness to New Age,
to the entire reality
we're presented with.
One of the things I did
was to divide it up--
the duality of reality.
Number one reality,
the physicality
of everything you
do during the day.
And then zero
reality, everything
that exists in your
imagination and your emotions
and your relationships,
that all occurs
all at an energetic level.
Number one reality has
an energetic level,
it's where you expend a lot of
energy in the course of a day.
But we also know that
just thinking all day long
will wear you out.
It dissipates your energy.
We want to be able
to integrate all this
and not suffer because of it.
Kundalini yoga is zero and
number one reality combined.
It has physical
exercises, but it also
has the work of the imagination,
the work of the intellect
also at play.
Hatha Yoga is
number one reality.
Hatha Yoga, for
the most part, is
to do the physical exercises.
And so is Zumba, and so
is running or cross fit.
All of these have the
same desired outcome--
to achieve a higher level
of energy and consciousness,
because energy and consciousness
levels are interchangeable.
It's just that each
of these approach it
from different directions.
You can approach the advancement
of your own consciousness
from a physical level or from a
mental, from a creative level.
This is a quote from
Yogi Bhajan in 2003.
It still has value
and resonance today.
"A new age calls for its
own words to live by."
Spiritual teachers, and
there are thousands of them,
share principles.
Some of these principles
have come to us
in the form of sutras.
A sutra is a complex
spiritual concept.
Sutras allow sacred teachings
to be protected from harm,
and were brief enough
to be remembered
by students in ancient
times and also under stress.
"The Yoga Sutras of Patanjali"
have sustained the world
over thousands of years
in their perfect wisdom.
These are the five sutures
of the Aquarian Age,
given to us by Yoga Bhajan.
Number 1, recognize the
other person is you.
This is where our
consciousness can encompass
the ideal of another person's
consciousness and the ideal
that it is different but
still can be accepted.
The second one is there is
a way through every block.
One of the things about the
speed of our civilization
is that it appears to be
speeding up to everybody,
and it doesn't
give us enough time
to work through
the blocks we have,
the interference,
to recognize the path we need
to pursue to move forward.
The third one, when
the time is on you,
start, and the
pressure will be off.
This is a very simple act.
It is one of the
primary things that
is required of you
is to stop thinking,
to stop feeling, and turn
around and make an action.
So many people are stuck
in their consciousness,
they're stuck at
a certain level,
and they can't seem
to get out of it.
And it requires you to move.
The fourth sutra
is understanding
through compassion, or you
will misunderstand the times.
This deals with the ego.
The ego wants to be right, and
compassion requires the truth.
If you seek the truth, you will
not misunderstand the person
in front of you or
the circumstances that
are going on around you.
The fifth one--
I love the fifth one--
vibrate the cosmos.
When you vibrate
the consciousness,
you vibrate the cosmos.
When you vibrate the cosmos
with the idea of love,
with the level of love,
with the idea of joy,
with a level of joy, you are
changing your environment
and you're changing every
one you relate to and
everyone you interact with.
Every morphic field and
every level of consciousness
has values.
And it also has a timeline for
when we either experience them
or when we adopt them.
Astrologers have determined that
every 2,000 years time moves us
into a new age.
In simple language,
this means we
are completing the Age
of Pisces and moving
into the Age of Aquarius.
Each age has its own
theme, its own axiom.
Piscean values work from the
ego, creating boundaries.
They were necessary to
advance our consciousness.
Aquarian values
have no boundaries.
That's what we see today--
they are infinite.
And we see the turmoil that
goes on from the adjustment.
Aquarian consciousness
takes you inside your soul
so that you can relate
to the soul in all.
In addition to Rupert
Sheldrake's work,
Dr. David Hawkins has
presented another approach
to human consciousness.
He delineated human awareness
into levels of consciousness.
Several years ago, I
attended a lecture.
During the course of that
lecture, he brought out a book,
and the title of the book
was "Power Versus Force."
And I was shocked because
the information in that book
was things that I had
been studying through all
these other teachers,
and yet here it all
was in a concise form,
laid out in a way
that you could explore
it and understand it.
He was explaining the
basic ideal and levels
of consciousness that
every human experiences
in the course of their life.
It's a reason why
advocated for anybody
who is studying
consciousness that this
is something they should read.
It will give you a
basic understanding
and give you mechanisms
to understand energy flow,
energy transference,
the connections we have.
Everything I've talked about is
also talked about in that book.
Except I learned it from
all these other teachers
in the same way that David did.
He consolidated them
and advance the ideas
by expanding them and
making them relate.
And that is the
greatest thing we can do
is to learn to relate to all
the different ideals and levels
of consciousness out there.
When I went to Dr.
David Hawkins' lectures,
realization was
something that happened.
It wasn't something
that I worked for.
Maybe the work that you
do up to now is important.
But realization is when
it all comes together.
So Dr. Hawkins when he laid out
the levels of consciousness,
the map of consciousness
he presented
was not meant to be the
end-all study of consciousness.
It was meant to give
you a guideline.
And each level
was something that
could be studied and
understood, and something
that could be related
to in your everyday life
and your own experiences
and your own studies
and your own reading.
I was able to
integrate it, I was
able to come
synchronized with it,
and I was able to
become congruent,
meaning to work out of a
new level of consciousness.
And particularly as it
applies to other people
and to companies and to
business and to all manner
of other information bubbles
and all manner of individuals,
because consciousness
is interactive.
It is in between.
It's the relationship.
So one of the things
about "Power Versus Force"
is that when you study the
levels of consciousness,
we come back to a
very important thing.
And that is, you are
in an energy crisis,
because if you participate
in everything under 200 level
consciousness--
it's in the book--
it deletes energy from
your energy field.
It distracts you.
It takes energy away from you.
It makes you less than yourself.
And then all the magic
occurs at the level of 200.
At 200, the level
of consciousness
is one of courage, the
courage to advance yourself,
the courage to explore
the truth, the courage
to accept reality for what it is
and not be judgmental about it.
And this of course is
also one of the things
that Dr. Rupert
Sheldrake talks about,
and accepting the consciousness
of animals and trees.
One of the things that
Yogi Bhajan talked about,
and that is accepting the
consciousness of other living
beings as something that
exists and something
not to be judgmental about.
One of the things
that occurs if we
look at collective consciousness
and political consciousness,
religious consciousness,
every one of those
has some form of
judgment in them,
and judgment lowers
your energy field.
It is an activity of below 200.
And 200 level
conscious of courage
is one that allows
you to move upwards.
And until you find the
courage to be yourself
and to accept these
things as truth,
you will always be stuck, you
will always have no energy,
and you will always be a
victim of the environment
and the universe.
We go out of victimhood.
When we move our
consciousness above 200,
we move it from not just
courage into acceptance.
And then acceptance
is the entire universe
is available to you, because
you're not judgmental about it.
He wrote an additional 14 books.
The last one is
called "Letting Go,"
and probably is one of the
most effective techniques
to break the connections
that you have formed
with your own energy existence,
your own energy bubble,
because some of those
no longer serve you.
Those values and the
time of their existence
no longer applies.
So now we have the whole
idea that we can elevate
or that we can move
upwards in consciousness.
Here's the concepts that
you can explore and find
some way to integrate,
synchronize, and make congruent
where you can act out of the
new level of consciousness.
Consciousness is a
process of growth.
It is something that
we're on the path of.
And that's what it
means to be on the path,
is to move forward.
Now that I have showed
you some different ways
to understand consciousness
and how we are connected,
I want to take you a step
further on how understanding
this leads to healing.
Stay tuned for the next
episode as we dive deeper
into the ancient medicine
origins of these same concepts.
[MUSIC PLAYING]